Apache kafka is a distributed messaging system defined on pub-sub messaging system.Kafka consists of queues in which messages 
area arranged which include a high volume of data.
*It provide real time processing to the users.
*It does not include latency,have fault tolerant properties .
*It is reliable,durable and can process or transfer large sets of data.
*data is stored on the disk which can be easily accessed by caching.
*As kafka is known for its real time processing,it can compute 2 million operations per second and is 100 times faster than 
 Hadoop.

BASIC TERMINOLOGIES INCLUDED:

1 TOPIC:Messages belonging to the particular category are called topics.these are further divided into partitions containing 
        data sets.For each topic kafka has minimum 1 partition.

2 PARTITION:topics are subdivided into partitions.or topics can be disjointed unions of partitions .

3 PRODUCER: Application generating data is called producer.
             eg:twitter,fb,you tube etc

4 CONSUMER:Application suscribing data or acessing data is called consumer.consumer acess data from brokers(kafka brokers).

5 OFFSET:Each partion have a specific ID called offset.consumer and producer identify paritions through their offset ID.

6 REPLICAS: These are the backups for partitions stored in brokers.i.e if one fails then then the replica can be used.

7 BROKERS: Kafka brokers have the partitions consisting  data ,which can be accessed by consumers.each partition is identified 
           by its offset no. 
           suppose we have n paritions and m brokers.,then:
           if(n=m)-one parition will go to one broker
           if(n>m)-first all brokers will get 1 parition then the remaining partitions are copied to second columns of brokers
           if(m>n) each partion will be copied to a broker and leaves the remaining ones.
8 KAFKA CLUSTER: Group of kafka brokers are called kafka cluster.it includes various produers,consumers,a zookeper.

9 LEADER:Zookeper appoints a leader in each kafka broker and it is responsible for all the reads and writes in partions.

10 FOLLOWER: It follows leader and if the leader fails one of the follower becomes new leader.
